
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="build-up_video_analyses">Build-up Video Analyses</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Build-up Video Analyses" [1-39] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="build-up_without_progress">Build-up without progress</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/tBIkB5juydg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

<p>
We constantly observe that our possession distribution isn&#039;t optimal, yet. Sometimes we get the following distribution out of 75-80% possession: 1. 3rd: 30%; 2. 3rd: 40%; 3. 3rd: 5-10%. A striven distribution should look like this 10%-40%-25%.
</p>

<p>
In this situation both CMs withdraw and provide short passing options. That results in 8 players in the 1st and 2nd line (GK, back of 4, CDM, 2 CMs). The opponent is pressing frantically in C2-D4 with 6 players. 
There are 5 vertical lanes (A-E) in Positional Play. Ideally each lane is occupied by one player between opponents defensive line and midfield. (LW: A3-4; LCM: B3; ST: C3-4; RCM: D3; RW: E3-4). We have to trust the CDM, GK and 2 CBs to resist opponents pressing and verticalize into proper zones. Therefore they need options in 3rd and 4th line. Thus, LCM could occupy B3 to overcome their pressing.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Build-up without progress" [40-1075] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="skill-moves_in_build-up_phase">Skill-moves in build-up phase</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/gS6iAfihvs8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

<p>
In general skill moves like scoop turns in build-up phase are evil. If you are not 95% certain that the move will work out, better avoid it, especially when there are simple passing options available.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Skill-moves in build-up phase" [1076-1459] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="how_to_improve_build-up">How to improve build-up</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/P39UArE95B4" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "How to improve build-up" [1460-1634] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="wingers_should_make_vertical_runs">Wingers should make vertical runs</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TY1OBzc3mWQ" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

<p>
In the first video, the LB receives the ball in A1 and gets pressed. Both the LB and the LW should have seen the space in A3 down the line and should have punished the high pressing opponent.
</p>

<p>
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/I6eUA9B8qM0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

<p>
The second video shows, how we can overcome opponents pressing, when wingers make vertical runs. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Wingers should make vertical runs" [1635-] -->