
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="our_philosophy_-_compact">Our Philosophy - Compact</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Our Philosophy - Compact" [1-40] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="summary">Summary</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The philosophy can be summarized as follows:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Technique: Know all important aspects of the game.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Decision Making: Make the right decisions in every situation.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Control: Keep control in every situation.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Pressure: On the opponent both when defending and when attacking.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Simplicity: Make it look simple and beautiful.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Evolution: Never stop learning.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
The overall goal is to constantly put pressure on the opponent on and off the ball whilst keeping control at the same time.
</p>

<p>
To do that, we need to obtain the necessary technique. 
</p>

<p>
After that, we have to learn by experience and certain rules what decisions to make ingame. 
</p>

<p>
When we obtained a decent decision making, we can control the game. 
</p>

<p>
To start winning regularly, we have to put constant pressure on the opponent. 
</p>

<p>
When we can do all that, our game looks simple automatically. 
</p>

<p>
To stay on a certain level or get better, we shall never stop learning.
</p>

<p>
Skip one of these points and the philosophy changes completely.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Summary" [41-1054] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="formations_and_systems">Formations and Systems</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
<span style="font-size:medium"><em>→ Main article: <a href="/doku.php?id=en:tactics:systemscompact" class="wikilink1" title="en:tactics:systemscompact">Formations and Systems</a></em></span>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Formations and Systems" [1055-] -->