
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="formations_and_systems">Formations and Systems</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
They are just numbers but the following points determine the playstyle:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">one, two or no strikers</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">one or two DM&#039;s</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">one or no CAM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">one or two CB&#039;s</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">one or two pivots</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
The following always stays the same:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">two box-to-box players (LCM/RCM)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">two offensive wingers (LW/RW)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">two fullbacks (LB/RB)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">one goalkeeper</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
The following systems are the result of months of testing and will probably change in the future.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Formations and Systems" [1-465] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="diamond_transformer-edition">5 - 4 - 1 (diamond) Transformer-Edition</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
What this formation starts of with:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">GK</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LWB LCB CB RCB RWB</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">CDM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LM RM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">CAM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">ST</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
But we will change the formation by doing the following:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LCB and RCB play as LCM and RCM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LM and RM play as LW and RW</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
The rather defensive <strong>5 - 4 - 1</strong> formation transforms into a <strong>3 - 1 - 2 - 1 - 3</strong> or <strong>3 - 4 - 3</strong> (diamond).
</p>

<p>
This is better than the ordinary 3 - 4 - 3 (diamond) that&#039;s in the game. Reason: LCB and RCB are too close to the center when they are controlled by the AI which makes it too easy for opponents to run down the wings. With LWB and RWB it is much easier to defend.
</p>

<p>
Key roles:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><strong>LWB/RWB</strong> widen up the field during build-up play and defend the wings</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><strong>CB</strong> works as pivot mainly for LWB/RWB/CDM; anticipates through balls in the middle</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><strong>CDM</strong> is the most important build-up player and works as pivot mainly for LCM/RCM/CAM; also anticipates through balls in the middle</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><strong>LCM/RCM</strong> create chances in the last third and play combinations in the diamond (<strong>CDM/LCM/RCM/CAM</strong>)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><strong>CAM</strong> works as link between LCM/RCM and LW/ST/RW and must help keeping the diamond and the combinations in it intact</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><strong>RW/LW</strong> don&#039;t take part in the first two thirds and only provide space for the diamond by staying wide; they have infinite freedom in the last third though, as long as they stay in a certain order for example: only three players inside the box!</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><strong>ST</strong> doesn&#039;t take part in combinations and is solely there to make runs to both get through balls and provide space for the diamond; must be a clinical finisher; always stay in the middle and on top of everyone else, don&#039;t track back and/or move to the wings!</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Currently the preferred system.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "5 - 4 - 1 (diamond) Transformer-Edition" [466-2208] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="section433">4 - 3 - 3</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">GK</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LB LCB RCB RB</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">CDM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LCM RCM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LW ST RW</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Same playstyle as the previous system with some changes:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">no diamond, because there is no CAM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">more wing-oriented and more one-twos between LCM/LW and RCM/RW</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">only one pivot: the CDM; more responsibility lies on the CDM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LCB and RCB defend their respective zones and use the CDM as pivot</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Preferred system when we have not enough players for a diamond.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "4 - 3 - 3" [2209-2648] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="false_9">4 - 3 - 3 (&quot;False 9&quot;)</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">GK</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LB LCB RCB RB</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">CDM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LCM RCM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">False Striker</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LW RW</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Differences to the ordinary 4 - 3 - 3 with a striker:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">The false ST provides the diamond that&#039;s missing in the previous formation</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">The false ST is CAM and ST at the same time; he therefore has more responsibility and has to be very creative and clinical at finishing; in exchange for that he has more freedom than anyone else</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LW and RW have a little more freedom cutting inside but have more responsibility infront of goal</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
A decent alternative but almost impossible/unnecessary when we have no “Messi-like” player.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "4 - 3 - 3 (False 9)" [2649-3276] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="ultra-offensive_nerd-edition">4 - 5 - 1 Ultra-Offensive Nerd-Edition</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Another transforming formation. It starts out with:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">GK</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LB LCB RCB RB</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LM CM RM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LAM RAM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">ST</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
What we are going to do:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LB and RB play LCM and RCM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">CM as CDM/CB hybrid</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">false ST</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LAM/RAM like LW/RW in 4 - 3 - 3 (false 9)</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
The outcome:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">GK</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LCB RCB</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">CDM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LM LCM RCM RM</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">False ST</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">LW RW</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
It turns into some kind of <strong>2 - 1 - 4 - 1 - 2</strong> or <strong>3 - 4 - 1 - 2</strong>. Basically, it&#039;s a <strong>4 - 3 - 3 (False 9)</strong> with higher fullbacks. This provides a more effective pressing and more options in offense because LM/RM play higher than LB/RB without having to let them play by real players.
</p>

<p>
It&#039;s also possible with a real ST by sacrificing the diamond. It then turns into either a <strong>2 - 1 - 4 - 3, 2 - 1 - 4 - 2 - 1, 3 - 4 - 2 - 1, 3 - 6 - 1</strong>, or however you want to call it. Formations are just phone numbers.
</p>

</div>
<div class="level2">

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "4 - 5 - 1 Ultra-Offensive Nerd-Edition" [3277-] -->