
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="pressing_resistance">Pressing resistance</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Pressing resistance is a topic that does not receive much attention in german football.
</p>

<p>
Oftentimes, you are called egoist, when you make more than two steps without passing the ball. For instance, Arjen Robben was dissed by public media and fans for his dribblings and pegged as egoist until winning the champions league trophy in 2013.
</p>

<p>
However, it is extemely important being able to hold the ball and stepping foward by means of a dribbling in case there a no suitable passing options - and good opponents will always try to prevent short passes.
</p>

<p>
Don&#039;t be affraid of holding the ball for a longer time, until you are attacked by an opposing player. By waiting with the ball, you force an opponent to leave his defensive zone, disorganise the opposing structure and create more room for at least one teammate.
</p>

<p>
When the opposing player reaches you and you pass the ball, this very player is taken out of the game and the opposing team has one player less in defense.
</p>

<p>
<iframe width="640" height="390" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bCGU8CXw9PM" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

<p>
<iframe src="http://gfycat.com/ifr/JampackedUntimelyAmericancrocodile" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" width="452" height="254" style="-webkit-backface-visibility: hidden;-webkit-transform: scale(1);" ></iframe>
</p>

<p>
A pressing resistant player knows all possible feints and movements, in order to assert oneself in narrow areas.
</p>

<p>
<iframe src="http://gfycat.com/ifr/FaroffPlasticHuman" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" width="602" height="338" style="-webkit-backface-visibility: hidden;-webkit-transform: scale(1);" ></iframe>
</p>

<p>
Tutorial for L2+R2 feints
</p>

<p>
<iframe width="640" height="390" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0FI6N8kqj_o" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

<p>
<iframe width="854" height="510" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/yFFC1Su4vtY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

<p>
A very effective movement is to hold L2 only (without using left stick), in order to assert oneself against the opposing pressing in tight spaces. The player will put his body between opponent and ball. This allows you to search for passing options or to force a foul.
</p>

<p>
Tutorial for simple effective trick movements:
</p>

<p>
<iframe width="640" height="390" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/hmAuvY7lK14" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

</div>
