
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="training_drills">Training drills</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Training drills" [1-31] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="on1keeping_ball_control">1on1: Keeping ball control</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The following is an easy to set up exercise to improve many things in your game:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">what passes can I play?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">how do I keep the ball until I can play a pass?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">how do I get inside the penalty area?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">how do I keep the ball in the penalty area?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">how do I move forward without losing the ball?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">how long can the distance between teammates and defenders be, so my passes don&#039;t get intercepted?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">which skill moves are the most effective?</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>Setup:</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">go to “Kick-off” mode</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">set the difficulty to “legendary”</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">set game length to how long you want to exercise</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">pick a team with high ball control and passing abilities</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">now it&#039;s up to you: Will you start against a 5 star team or start with 1 star and slowly move up?</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">I recommend starting against a 1 star team if you have no experience playing on legendary</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>What to do:</strong>
</p>

<p>
When the match begins you will only want to do one thing: keep the ball as close to the goal as possible.
</p>

<p>
Don&#039;t care about scoring or winning. Move up the pitch by dribbling and passing at the right moments so you make no mistakes. When you reach the box do not start with random things which can lead to mistakes. Do not shoot or run into defenders. 
</p>

<p>
Play and pass around until the time is over. If you can keep the ball near and in the opposition box without any problems, you can start playing against a higher rated team.
</p>

<p>
During this match you will make alot of mistakes at first. It may be frustrating playing against legendary AI because they tend to have a “sixth sense” and intercept passes and runs much more frequently than average human players. 
</p>

<p>
It will be hard at first to get even across midfield, but it is absolutely worth it. If you face problems, look at replays and see what went wrong: Did I not run into space but into the defender? Where should I have run instead? Do I make this mistake more often? Was this player really open? Should I have passed back? Is this skill move I always want to do really effective or is it too slow and inefficient? What options do I have on the wing when I don&#039;t want to lose the ball? How do I keep the ball until I have an option?
</p>

<p>
One or two of these training matches per day should be enough, depends on how much time you have. But honestly, I think these type of games are much more worth it than any UT- or Drop-in-Match you could possibly think of.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "1on1: Keeping ball control" [32-] -->