
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="contemporary_analysis_1">Contemporary analysis #1</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
December 2nd 2015
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Contemporary analysis #1" [1-58] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="accomplishments_since_the_start_of_fifa_16">Accomplishments since the start of FIFA 16</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Before I start with criticism, I want to point out all the positive things we have accomplished until today.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Accomplishments since the start of FIFA 16" [59-224] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit3" id="improvements">Improvements</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
At first, I must point out that some of our players have gone through a tremendous improvement and showed how quickly players can learn when they really want to. Credits to KingKrelliKrell and CGGyllen. You now play much better than most of other FIFA players out there but without as much experience. Playing like this in your first pro club season is an astonishing achievement.
</p>

<p>
It is our duty (JDe17DeW, BRAZZO87, JCruyff__14) to help you out with our experiences we had in the last 5-6 years of pro clubs both in bad times and great times with very high rankings in the world table.
</p>

<p>
It is probably hard to appreciate how different our playstyle is from most of the other pro clubs out there, who claim they want to play beautifully, since the Cruyff Academy is one of your first (or even first) clubs you have played with. Believe me: If you played somewhere else for a long time, you would miss the Academy with a passion.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Improvements" [225-1179] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit4" id="respect">Respect</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Another thing - besides the great learning curve - is the general kindness and respect between players. This can not be taken for granted and I hope you never will. This is also very different in other clubs, where people shout at each other, insult each other and bitch about every detail ingame and afterwards. It is mostly the not so good players who bitch the most, which is the worst combination: No skill combined with arrogance. I am glad that there are no players like this around here.
</p>

<p>
If someone makes alot of mistakes ingame (or even just some mistakes), they mostly tend to apologize for them afterwards. The reactions of the other players are always kind and respectful but never insulting. This is something we should be proud of.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Respect" [1180-1945] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit5" id="tactical_achievements">Tactical achievements</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Now let&#039;s cut the crap and head over to tactical things. Our major achievement in the tactical section is, that we have managed an above average positional play which leads us to have control of the game in our own half. 
</p>

<p>
The wingers mostly stay on the wings and are open for long balls when needed. The CM&#039;s mostly stay in their respective zones and do not change their positions as much as they used to in the beginning. But there are still big problems in both of the mentionend areas (wingers and CM&#039;s) we have talk to about later on.
</p>

<p>
When a player starts a dribbling, most of the others help him by moving away and trying to give him space. Sometimes it is a little too extreme (everyone moves away and behind defenders so the man on the ball loses all of his options) but it became a little better in compare to before where everyone moved closer to the dribbler and took away space completely. The answer is somewhere in between and from now on we have to try and get there.
</p>

<p>
Everyone slowly learned how to use L2 perfectly and I barely see someone running and walking with their back turned towards the ball. This is also something that is probably unique in the Cruyff Academy.
</p>

<p>
L2 is also used very well to slow down the pace of the game and keep control of the ball. I think everyone uses it sometimes in their game and this is a great improvement. However, we could use this technique more frequently and efficientlly in more important areas on the pitch. More to that later.
</p>

<p>
We barely play random (through) balls towards the strikers that won&#039;t work. Until we reach the middle line we know how to keep control of the game, play patiently and mostly calmly. This is the biggest reason why we always have a possession rate of above 60% and most of the time between 70% and 80%. Why I always say “until the middle line” will be discussed later on.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Tactical achievements" [1946-3840] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit6" id="before_the_criticism">Before the criticism</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Some of my criticism I will start with soon may sound harsh to some of you maybe unfair even. I tend to make criticism sound very apocalyptic and sound like I dislike everything. I want you to understand that this is not true, that&#039;s why pointed out all the positive things first. Since we are so nice too each other, there is close to no criticism whatsoever in our club, which is great in a personal way (nobody gets “hurt”) but bad in a psychological and tactical way.
</p>

<p>
Why is it bad in a psychological way? I don&#039;t mean getting hurt or feeling insulted. I mean the mindset. If noone every tells you what you do wrong but instead tells you only what you do right, makes you think that you never do anything wrong and you will never improve. You&#039;ll have a too positive opinion of yourself and also too high expectations of yourself and others. If you only get told positive things, you will think everything you do is great and when you did something wrong you tend not to care - because you don&#039;t have to fear criticism.
</p>

<p>
Why is it bad in a tactical way? Expecially because of lack of improvement. I talked about the great improvement before, which may be contrary to what I&#039;m talking about right now. It&#039;s confusing, that I talk about how great you improved and now I say that you don&#039;t improve, right? Well, this is only half true.
</p>

<p>
Why did you improve? Because you are motivated and wanted to. We also tried to tell you what we want and need (L2, positioning, safe passes, etc.). I&#039;m sure (and I hope) the motivation is still there, but there has been little to zero improvement in the last 2 or even 3 weeks. We have developped to a certain point and stopped going up from there. And this stagnation can only be stopped with effective and constructive criticism. 
</p>

<p>
This club is called Cruyff <strong>Academy</strong> and schools and academies need teachers and directors. Football clubs need managers and coaches who tell their players what they expect from them and what they think goes wrong. 
</p>

<p>
So, if you haven&#039;t stopped reading yet, I see that you are still motivated. I pointed out my concerns and worries, now I think you should be ready for the tough (or not so tough) stuff coming at you now.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Before the criticism" [3841-6068] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit7" id="tactical_stagnation_and_deprivation">Tactical stagnation and deprivation</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
At first, I want to point out the few big problems we have right now before heading to our actual expectations.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "Tactical stagnation and deprivation" [6069-6230] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit8" id="little_to_no_control_in_the_opposition_half">Little to no control in the opposition half</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
As I said some times before, we have great control in our own half until we reach the middle line. Then it stops. Right after reaching the opposition half, we do mostly everything wrong. We tend to “force it” 90% of the time and play through balls too early and/or too often to the wings. The calm and thought-through build-up play we have in our own half gets completely thrown over as soon as we cross the middle line which leads to more problems.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT8 SECTION "Little to no control in the opposition half" [6231-6736] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit9" id="we_don_t_know_how_to_create_chances">We don&#039;t know how to create chances</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
When we reach the opposition box we tend to play way too hectically, make skill moves into defenders, don&#039;t see teammates who are completely open, make unneccessary fake shots and scoop turns and - a big problem which makes my head spin everytime - the long shots.
</p>

<p>
Since we rarely have “true” strikers who run into spaces for through balls and due to the lack of knowledge of how to send “signals” as described <a href="http://cruyff-academy.crayos.de/doku.php?id=en:tactics:playmaking8#signaling_through_balls" class="urlextern" title="http://cruyff-academy.crayos.de/doku.php?id=en:tactics:playmaking8#signaling_through_balls"  rel="nofollow">here</a>. Both important parameters are missing: The CM&#039;s rarely send these signals and when they do, the strikers either don&#039;t know about them or don&#039;t know how and where to run.
</p>

<p>
This leads to few to zero goals we make per game. The only chances we have are either penalties or long shots. This has to change implicitly.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT9 SECTION "We don't know how to create chances" [6737-7610] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit10" id="the_cm_s_really_love_the_wings_-_but_hate_the_centre">The CM&#039;s really love the wings - but hate the centre</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Another thing that grinds my gears in every match is, that the CM&#039;s are always very very far apart from each other. So far that I believe that if you ask the LCM for example if there was an RCM after a match, he will probably not know about him. They don&#039;t know and care about each other&#039;s existence.
</p>

<p>
But it is very cruel to positional play that CDM, LCM and RCM are connected to each other. If they are not, we will always and only play through the wings. The RCM has to be an option for the LCM and the same counts for the CDM.
</p>

<p>
This is not only the case in terms of positioning, but also when the CM&#039;s carry the ball. As soon as our CM&#039;s cross the middle line, they ignore the pivot (=CDM) and their counterpart (=other CM) and either play long balls to the other side or force the pass to the striker or (most commonly) play to their respective wings. 
</p>

<p>
Not only in passing, but also in dribbling: When one of our CM&#039;s get the ball, they always want to dribble towards their respective wing. The reason probably is: Because there is space. This is true, the wings are mostly open because the opponents rarely care about them. The crucial areas of the game are in the centre where the goal is.
</p>

<p>
Wingers are extremely easy to defend. A common tactical approach in defending is to make the opposition winger think he is open, but as soon as he gets the ball he will be isolated and have no options but dribbling and making (random) skill runs and crosses.
</p>

<p>
It is the task of the wingers and not of the CM&#039;s to use space on the wings. We will rarely create chances from the wings but it is way more effective to play through the centre and the halfspaces. Wingers are called wingers, because the wings are their territory: CM&#039;s are called “central midfielders” because the centre is their territory (centre includes centre and halfspaces, because close to nobody knows that halfspaces exist and just call them centre too).
</p>

<p>
Now that we have come to the word “territory”, I must go on with the next point.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT10 SECTION "The CM's really love the wings - but hate the centre" [7611-9681] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit11" id="cm_s_love_running_behind_defenders_for_through_balls_and_inside_the_box">CM&#039;s love running behind defenders for through balls and inside the box</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
This can be extremely annoying for any striker who plays with us. Since the ST has little to zero contribution in our game and has only a few tasks (running into spaces, be an option in the box etc.) even they are taken away from him too often.
</p>

<p>
We have too many players inside the box. The highest number of players that should be in the box are 3. LW, ST and RW. No CM&#039;s or CDM&#039;s whatsoever. There are exceptions, ofcourse but let me tell you what our problem is.
</p>

<p>
For example when I play ST and I get the ball, at least one or even both CM&#039;s start running forward. This is (mostly) wrong! This is also another reason why we have such a hard time controlling the game in the opposition half: As soon as the striker gets the ball, at least one CM starts running past defenders instead of being an option for the striker! If the CM&#039;s would stop their running-away-from-teammates thing it would be much easier to stay in control and we might even be able to stay in the opposition half without losing the ball after 2 passes!
</p>

<p>
This is also connected to the “run-to-the-wings” problem. As soon as a CM sees space on the wing he runs towards it - and away from all his teammates. The connection is lost and he will be isolated most of the time. There always has to be a connection between the CM&#039;s and the CDM - in some systems also with the false 9 and/or CAM (“diamond”). 
</p>

<p>
As soon as one player of this “network” leaves, we are automatically forced to play through the wings <strong>only</strong> and we wil have a really really hard time controlling the ball in the centre - instead, we will be depended on skill runs from wingers and penalties conceded by these skill runs.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT11 SECTION "CM's love running behind defenders for through balls and inside the box" [9682-11428] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit12" id="how_it_must_be_done">How it must be done</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
To help you understand this, I want you all to look at this beautiful video to show what I mean. The best football team from the last ~20 years showing us how it must be done:
</p>
<iframe src="//www.youtube.com/embed/Z52EUQiP330" height="350" width="425" class="vshare__none" allowfullscreen="" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
<p>
 <sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
</p>

<p>
You will see that there is much space on the wings. But Barcelona and Pep Guardiola know, that this is mostly irrelevant. The wings are there, to widen up the play and make space for the centre - not to contribute too much to build-up play as we are doing it. 
</p>

<p>
The wingers are there to be an option for long balls when we <strong>have to</strong> switch the play when one of us is isolated - or when we make use of the “free man” on the other side. What we do is playing long balls to the other side only because it is “open” but not because it really helps us or it is really needed to switch the play.
</p>

<p>
When the wingers get the ball during build-up play, they do <strong>not</strong> turn around and start dribbling, as we are doing it very often. Instead, they get the ball back to the centre <abbr title="As soon as possible">ASAP</abbr> <sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT12 SECTION "How it must be done" [11429-12714] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit13" id="building_up_networks">Building up networks</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
In the video, there are always connections between at least 3 players who can pass the ball to each other safely. My following statement now is extremely important:
</p>

<p>
When there is no connection between at least 3 players, the man on the ball <strong>waits</strong> until there is a third connection and uses this time to carry the ball forward, play the ball back or to (safely!) get inside the box. No skill runs just for the hell of it, like we are doing it sometimes! No unneccessary risks until we get to the box!
</p>

<p>
I want to talk more about tactical options when we are on the ball to wait for a network to be created or even to help creating this network.
</p>

<p>
When there are only two players connected to each other, they play one-twos until a third one comes to create a 3-player-network.
</p>

<p>
If there never comes a third player, these two players stay connected to each other all the time. If one of them moves, the other one follows and so on.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT13 SECTION "Building up networks" [12715-13680] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit14" id="what_does_connection_mean">What does &quot;connection&quot; mean?</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Now I kept talking about networks and connections, players connected to each other and so on - but what exactly do I mean by that?
</p>

<p>
Players are connected to each other when they follow the rules of <a href="/doku.php?id=en:guides:passing" class="wikilink1" title="en:guides:passing">this page</a>. In short, players are connected when…:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">…they <strong>face</strong> the ball carrier (by holding L2)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">…no opposition player can get in between</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">…the distance between players are not over ~10m (~11 yards)</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Alot of experience is needed to be completely efficient in all three tasks. It is easier to be connected when you are not under much pressure but it will be more and more difficult the more pressure the opponent uses on you.
</p>

<p>
Especially, the second parameter (no opposition player can get in between) is the hardest one to fully understand and see ingame. Most players think that they are really open although they are not. 1m or 2m (~2-3 yards) distance from a defender can already make a difference and the same counts for defenders who are about to move between you and the ball carrier. Since normal X-Passes tend to be very slow (the longer the slower), defenders can easily intercept, even if you think it&#039;s impossible they can.
</p>

<p>
This is an area where FIFA 16 differs a bit more from real football and you have to have knowledge of how long the distance between you and defenders must and can be so you are connected to the ball carrier. This can only be learned by experience. <a href="/doku.php?id=en:guides:training" class="wikilink1" title="en:guides:training">Easy training drills and exercises</a> can help you speed up the usually low learning curve by pure experience.
</p>

<p>
The third parameter almost becomes obsolete since EA implemented the hard passes with R1. If a player is completely open but a little further away it is still possible to pass it to him with R1.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT14 SECTION "What does connection mean?" [13681-15470] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit15" id="wings_are_not_neccessarily_bad">Wings are not neccessarily bad!</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
…as long as they do not always want to turn around and start a dribbling. When you get the ball in the first two thirds of the field <strong>do not start dribbling/skill moves</strong> but make an easy and safe pass back to the respective CM or the CDM.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT15 SECTION "Wings are not neccessarily bad!" [15471-] --><div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
Please bear in mind that, in this particular video, there are some counter attack goals that make an exception. Sometimes they play passes to hectically and to quickly up front which don&#039;t work at first but Barcelona ends up pretty lucky.</div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
as soon as possible</div>
</div>
