
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="faq">FAQ</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "FAQ" [1-19] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="why_do_you_think_this_is_going_to_work">Why do you think this is going to work?</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
I adapt this philosophy to FIFA every year since 2011. It has never been perfect but I always try to find flaws and remove them. There are difficulties every year - some things will be made easier, some have to become more sophisticated. It will constantly improve and relies solely on what I have already seen and done myself and therefore know that it works 100%.
</p>

<p>
The biggest problem every year are the “doubters” who don&#039;t believe in the philosophy and rather do their own thing which has always been proven as counterproductive and nerve-wracking.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Why do you think this is going to work?" [20-626] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="how_long_does_it_take_to_become_good_at_this">How long does it take to become good at this?</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
It depends on your experience, your motivation and your talent. The most things can be learned by following (more or less) easy rules, but other things require long time depending on your experience and your will to learn. To an extent, it also depends on your skills like quick reactions, immediate and correct decision making and overall creativity.
</p>

<p>
Sometimes it is better when you have less experience because you are not too stuck with a certain playstyle yet and you&#039;re most likely to learn and improve.
</p>

<p>
Other times, though, if you are familiar with the necessary techniques and know how the game works, your adaption to this playstyle may go alot quicker.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "How long does it take to become good at this?" [627-1350] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="does_it_also_lead_to_success_like_high_rankings_on_the_leaderboard">Does it also lead to success like high rankings on the leaderboard?</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
This also depends on several things other than the philosophy itself. To climb up the leaderboard you have to follow certain rules like play alot (and I mean ALOT), play with as many players as possible (like 6/7+), win the Division 1 title often and lose as rarely as possible.
</p>

<p>
There are many clubs out there who make use of these rules and for example leave their club and create another one to avoid losing when they are less than 6/7 players at the moment. It is hard to get as high as them but it is possible.
</p>

<p>
The last two years, we got at least into the Top 50 without following the leaderboard rules and just by following the (still flawed) philosophy. To become successful, we always needed <em>at least</em> 5 specific player types:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">a very secure and active “any”</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">a clinical finisher</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">a “destroyer” in defence with great anticipation</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">a secure and creative playmaker</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">another playmaker OR a creative winger with good finishing</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
When you have <em>at least</em> five of these players you already have a decent foundation.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Does it also lead to success like high rankings on the leaderboard?" [1351-] -->