
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="winning_the_ball">Winning the ball</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<iframe width="640" height="390" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Vs3BqvnUp-8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

<p>
Keep distance to the opponent player and follow his movements by <strong>holding L2</strong> (L2 and R2 for faster jockeying). Once the opponent is near you a manual tackle or sliding tackle can be conducted. Oftentimes, it is sufficient to <strong>stay on L2</strong> and wait until the opponent is running into your player, though.
</p>

<p>
The most crucial thing is to stay <strong>closer to the own goal</strong> than the opponent. As soon as this isn&#039;t the case and the opponent is running with full speed you have no chance to intervene anymore. Hence, do not go to the ball aggressively (especially as last man) and keep the distance with L2 in order to cover the room in front of the opponent. 
</p>

<p>
<iframe src="http://gfycat.com/ifr/InfantileAngelicGonolek" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" width="960" height="540" style="-webkit-backface-visibility: hidden;-webkit-transform: scale(1);" ></iframe>
</p>

<p>
A lot of defenders hold
Was viele Verteidiger/Anys machen ist, dass sie L2 gedrückt halten und währenddessen vor dem Gegner ständig Bewegungen links/rechts bzw. oben/unten zu machen oder sich sogar im Kreis bewegen, sodass sie noch mehr Raum zum dribbeln und passen abdecken.
</p>

<p>
Important: When you attack the player in possession, you are giving him the opportunity to take you out of the game by dribbling or passing. If you keep distance it is most likely that the opponent is overstrained and runs into your player.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Prefer L2 (jockeying) over X (containing)</strong> to block shots inside the own box! It prevents you from causing penalties. 
</p>

<p>
Wirst du aufgrund eines Stellungsfehlers überrant, versuche den Gegner mit Trikotziehen (Kreis) zu verlangsamen. 
</p>

<p>
<strong><em>Im Strafraum darfst du aber NIE den Körperkontakt suchen</em></strong>, da es sonst sehr wahrscheinlich Elfmeter geben wird. 
</p>

<p>
<strong><em class="u">Also:</em></strong> <strong><em>
Mit L2 Abstand halten, den Raum zum Tor/Mitspieler abdecken, nie auf Zweikampf (O) drücken!</em></strong>
</p>

</div>
