
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="quotations">Quotations</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
In this article we collect important sayings regarding Positional Play.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Quotations" [1-99] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="johan_cruyff">Johan Cruyff</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
“Playing football is very simple, but playing simple football is the hardest thing there is.”
</p>

<p>
“Quality without results is pointless. Results without quality is boring.”
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Johan Cruyff" [100-299] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="juanma_lillo">Juanma Lillo</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
… on the subject of long balls and counter-attacks in football:
</p>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “The faster the ball goes, the faster it comes back”</div></blockquote>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “If you develop your play slowly you&#039;ll be under pressure from the start, for sure. But if your football&#039;s very fast and direct you&#039;re going to have the ball thrown back at you almost immediately. In football, to get up high, you need passing movements in the main part of the pitch. There&#039;s only one thing that gives or takes away order in a game and that&#039;s the ball itself, so I like my players to be in lots of different partnerships but als strung across different areas of the field. If their passing is good, then we&#039;ll be moving our rivals all over the pitch and then you&#039;re going to find free men easily because they&#039;ll either be forced to break up playing partnerships or string themselves out across the pitch. If players don&#039;t take the time to construct play it will be difficult to get the ball to the right places up the pitch and then dominate the opposition. If you play the ball upfield at top speed all the time, hitting first time long balls, the ball will be back on top of you in seconds. Up and down, up and down … You have to pass when the moment&#039;s right, to the right player. Get that wrong and you&#039;ll be playing long balls for your opponents to gobble up and then come at you in numbers”</div></blockquote>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “If the basic idea is to set up camp in the oppositions&#039;s half then the fundamental thing is to play the ball out from the back in a manner which takes advantage of, and is inherently linked to, the talents and culture of your team. Only if you achieve this clinically and intelligently can you drop anchor in the opponents&#039; half.”</div></blockquote>

<p>
… on attacking and defending as a unit:
</p>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “Travel together but not just on the same train - in the same carriage”</div></blockquote>

<p>
… on the right distribution of the players on the pitch:
</p>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “in recovery phase, always a step forward (defensive work by reducing space) and in possession phase, always a step backwards (offensive work by making the pitch bigger)”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Juanma Lillo" [300-2350] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="pep_guardiola">Pep Guardiola</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
… on dominating and controlling from the start:
</p>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “I&#039;ve already mentioned this idea of taking the initiative as a vital part of any successful attack. If were the ones initiating the action, as opposed to simply reacting, then we&#039;ll be able to control the flow of the game. The opponents then have to react to what we do, which automatically means a limited choice of options. It makes them more predictable. Then we are in the driving seat and can anticipate what&#039;s going to happen next and can go on controlling the action.”</div></blockquote>

<p>
… on his preference for 5 strikers at Bayern (3rd season), using the pyramid system (2-3-5):
</p>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “It&#039;s weird, I know. I&#039;ve spent my whole life saying that it&#039;s all about the midfielders and here I am, using five strikers. Passes from the midfield or further back are more likely to be safe and efficient if they&#039;re aimed outside, towards the wingers but we&#039;re more likely to do some damage if they go inside (although they&#039;re more likely to be intercepted). But five strikers give us so many more men to pass to. The other players can choose to pass to the outside (less risk) or to the inside (more risk but more threat to the other team). It just gives us so many different options.”</div></blockquote>

<p>
… on the usage of wingers:
</p>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “It&#039;s not that I quite like my wingers to play open and very wide. It&#039;s absolutely essential to my game. What I like more is wingers playing on their natural side rather than off their wrong foot and coming in - although I&#039;ve often used them that way. But just look at Gento, one of the greatest wingers in history. Gento played on his natural wing and he pushed and ran - chasing the ball to the line and then crossing. The reason that I like wingers who go outside and cross off their better foot is that when Costa or Coman hit the line and cross it allows Lewy and Müller to charge on to a ball which is curving out into their path.”</div></blockquote>

<p>
… on bringing wingers into action:
</p>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “The main thing is that we start the moves intelligently. Bringing the ball out from the back well is vital to our attack. [Is it really important?] Of course! It&#039;s just not the same if the winger gets the ball from the centre half compared to from an inside forward. If he gets possession from the centre back it gives the other team time to organizse their defence. But if the play&#039;s been worked forwards until it&#039;s the attacking midfielder who delivers the ball it&#039;s far harder to defend - especially if the midfielders have drawn the defenders to them. It&#039;s one of the fundamental parts of our game, bringing out the ball cleanly. That&#039;s why we messed up at the start [against Atletico in CL semi finals], because we brought it out badly.”</div></blockquote>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “There are two kinds of coaches.  Those who begin their attack from their own penalty box and those who begin it when their rivals take their goal kick. Only if you play out, building out from the back with clean, accurate, intelligent passing you can can install yourself in the opponens&#039; half.”</div></blockquote>

<p>
… about options against Atleticos pressing in second leg: 
</p>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “One option is to take a new approach to the first fifteen minutes of the game. They&#039;ll be pressing us high up the pitch and I might ask my defenders to send lots of long balls to Lewandowski for our midfield to follow up and look to win layoffs or the second ball. It&#039;s not how I like to construct our game but it is a good way to neutralise their pressing and I think our supporters would like that approach. It would help us get fully switched-on and involved in the game from the start and short circuit Atleticos initial charge. But I&#039;ll need to come up with a few alternatives: if they put out a 4-4-2, with Torres and Griezmann at the front that&#039;s totally different from a 4-1-4-1 with Carrasco up front. Dome Torrent and I will have to design an emergency plan for the last half an hour in case we have to produce a heroic comeback. It feels like we&#039;ll have to play lots of minigames within this one game and we&#039;ll have to be totally prepared for them all.”</div></blockquote>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “The only important things in our game are what happens within these 4 lines. Everything else is secondary.” </div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Pep Guardiola" [2351-6496] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="louis_van_gaal">Louis Van Gaal</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
… about the number of touches of a real 9:
</p>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “I was manager of Bayern, and there the striker was Mario Gomez, and he touched the ball nine times as an average in a game. The highest was 14 balls but he scored every game and I don’t think that our strikers touch the ball less. It’s how the balls are coming to him, how he decides, how quick he is in dealing with the situation, it’s much more complicated than everyone is thinking.”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Louis Van Gaal" [6497-6971] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="marti_perarnau">Marti Perarnau</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
… on Bayern practicing rondos under Guardiola:
</p>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “Initially the Bayern players couldn&#039;t produce more than ten consecutive passes in a rondo without one of the players in the centre intercepting it, but three years later there are numerous clips showing lighning fast rondos where they reach fifty, sixty or more. How did that change? They practised, were corrected and they mastered the skill.”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Marti Perarnau" [6972-7398] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit7" id="domenec_torrent">Domenec Torrent</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
… on Positional Play, teached by Pep at Bayern:
</p>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “Yes, he had to cover that too because they&#039;d never played like that before and had no real understanding of what it meant. For Pep and Barca it became a habit but in Munich they still believed that it was a style of play used to maintain high possession. Rubbish! It&#039;s a game of position, not possession! It&#039;s about how you place yourself in relation to the others on the field when you have the ball and where you should be so that you can continue pressing when you lose it. … Positional Play definitely symbolises all that Guardiola achieved at Bayern. … Many people argue that a more direct style is always more effective but both Barca and Bayern have proved that Positional Play can be just as successful. The German players were actually quite surprised by the intensity of this kind of work, how much physical effort is required. They also came to see that Positional Play is more or less the essence of fottball; you lose the ball, you press,you get it back, you begin to open up the play again and you&#039;re in control again. ”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "Domenec Torrent" [7399-8524] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit8" id="andres_iniesta">Andrés Iniesta</h2>
<div class="level2">
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “We passed from one era to the next and suddenly there was a different way of playing and a different way of understanding what we were trying to do and how we would go about trying to hurt the opposition. There was coming out with the ball using the centre backs or with the full backs, then there was the tactic of dropping the holding midfielder between the central defenders. I had never experienced such a definitive style of play. We always played a midfield three with one holding player flanked by two more attacking players. I was one of the attacking midfielders and I used to have to come back to receive the ball. But Pep changed that; he told me to be much higher up the pitch to be ready for the next phase of play.”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT8 SECTION "Andrés Iniesta" [8525-9291] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit9" id="xavi_hernandez">Xavi Hernández</h2>
<div class="level2">
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “98% of the people love Football, but only 2% understand it.”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT9 SECTION "Xavi Hernández" [9292-9385] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit10" id="arjen_robben">Arjen Robben</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Arjen Robben (33) to the question of whether there is still something that excites him? 
</p>

<p>
“It makes me proud that I have won now my overall 10th League title, and also in different countries. It makes me even more proud that I am drawn with Johan Cruyff - the greatest footballer of all time in Holland. If I ever master again, I would overtake him. This is something that still excites me.”
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT10 SECTION "Arjen Robben" [9386-9804] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit11" id="garry_kasparov">Garry Kasparov</h2>
<div class="level2">
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “Your opening moves are much more than the trivial mobilisation of your troops. They establish what kind of battle it&#039;s going to be and is your first and best opportunity to take the game in the direction you want it to go, where you&#039;ll be best placed to beat your opponent. The start of your game is the most difficult, the most subtle phase of all.”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT11 SECTION "Garry Kasparov" [9805-10187] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit12" id="ortlface">Ortlface</h2>
<div class="level2">
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “Cruyff Academy changed my life”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT12 SECTION "Ortlface" [10188-10244] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit13" id="jonyk">JonyK</h2>
<div class="level2">
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “Pep said “I knew nothing about Football until I met Cruyff.” And I feel I knew nothing about Football until I joined Cruyff Academy”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT13 SECTION "JonyK" [10245-10399] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit14" id="haks_27">Haks_27</h2>
<div class="level2">
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “You have taught me a lot, not just on clubs but in real football too. I&#039;ve even improved my game in real life thanks to this club.”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT14 SECTION "Haks_27" [10400-10555] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit15" id="cggyllen">CGGyllen</h2>
<div class="level2">
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “The way we play, misstakes at the back will always happen. It&#039;s the price we pay for playing the way we do. The general idea is that we bennefit from it more, where we can control in a way we wouldn&#039;t if we sought to minimize risk at the back insted. Ofc, we should always try to avoid it, but it&#039;s easierly said than done. Some costly misstakes during buildup are to be expected.”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT15 SECTION "CGGyllen" [10556-10963] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit16" id="edgarzinho">Edgarzinho</h2>
<div class="level2">
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “The issue with Ajax in the final third I think had to do with 2 things really. There&#039;s a positive correlation  between risks and ability. That is to say, the higher your ability, the more likely the risks you take come off. Ajax take too many technically demanding risks for the quality of their players. Instead, they should stick to moving the opposition more before they attempt to take a risk, and taking lower level risks.”</div></blockquote>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “Players try too much too often. It&#039;s often a problem seen with dribblers. There&#039;s nothing wrong with dribbling one in a while but when you are doing it almost every time the opposition has to be much worse for it to work that often. This applies with all types of risk taking, crossing, long passes, shots from distance, through balls etc.”</div></blockquote>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “The key to breaking down defenses is moving them around with good positioming (hence positional play) and good ball movement until the spaces open up for the “easy”as risks. Pep explained this forever ago as well. (the key to team sports is that you start one side and finish on the other).”</div></blockquote>
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “It&#039;s like a pendulum. You swing it left and right and eventually the spaces open up. The defending block gets disjointed eventually, (depending on the opposition more or less often than others). People often lack the patience to keep switching it. They want to create something every time they&#039;re on the ball or even after a short period.”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT16 SECTION "Edgarzinho" [10964-12404] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit17" id="maurice_maeterlinck">Maurice Maeterlinck</h2>
<div class="level2">
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “Every time I make a mistake, I seem to discover a new truth”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT17 SECTION "Maurice Maeterlinck" [12405-12501] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit18" id="xesco_espar">Xesco Espar</h2>
<div class="level2">
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “To achieve excellence you need to train but to surpass it you need to change”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT18 SECTION "Xesco Espar" [12502-12607] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit19" id="marcelo_bielsa">Marcelo Bielsa</h2>
<div class="level2">
<blockquote><div class="no">
 “The foreign model that pleases me most is that of Louis van Gaal Ajax, that is to say a flexible team to compose his lines based on the adversary requirements at the time of ball recovery . Me, what interests me is that the team has a clean and independent game project on offensive phases. I calculated, 37 passes backwards.The supporter sees this as a refusal to play, but undoubtedly as this happens backwards, this is the beginning of a new attack.”</div></blockquote>

</div>
<!-- EDIT19 SECTION "Marcelo Bielsa" [12608-] -->